Leading congruently requires building trust.
Interpersonal trust is the willingness to accept vulnerability based on the expectation that another party's behavior will produce a positive outcome.
Trust is built in small, consistent moments based on four distinct pillars.
Sincerity means being true to your word, with opinions supported by evidence.
Reliability means keeping commitments.
Competence means possessing the required skills and resources to execute duties.
Care means being genuinely concerned with the interests of others.
Consider a worked example.
A leader promises to review a project by Friday, which is sincerity.
The leader actually completes the review on time, demonstrating reliability.
The leader provides expert feedback, showing competence, and ensures the team member is not overworked,
proving care.
Let us do a tiny check for understanding.
If a leader consistently shows up to meetings on time, which pillar does this represent?
Sincerity or reliability?
The correct answer is reliability because it involves keeping a commitment.
Noticing the right cue here is an excellent strategy for building trust.